So in the last lecture we added the Title field to our widget. Let's now add the rest of our fields. We still
need a checkbox to display the dates and number of posts and we will also add a dropdown for the post sorting.
So let's do that.
I know this lecture can be a bit boring, we'll type some HTML here for the fields.
So let's start by the number of posts
maybe. It will be similar to this one, but we will have to change some stuff in it. So let's copy the title
and let's see what we'll have to change.
So of course we will change the "title" to "post_count"
maybe. And we'll also change this to "Number Of Posts:". And in the inputs, we will instead of title, I've  "post_count"
in the ID and in the name.
And the "type" will be a "number". And let's add a minimum number 1. And let's remove the value for now and then
we'll see what we will have to do when we save and sanitize.
So let's take a look.
And we have number field here. And in case you are wondering,
this is how the IDs and the names that WordPress generates look like
as you can see. WordPress just make sure its a unique ID and name,
in case you have multiple instances of the same widget, right?
So anyways lets now create a checkbox for display the date.
So we need another P tag.
Let's create an INPUT of "type="checkbox"". And it will also have an ID and a name,
but let's copy these from here.
And modify this to "include_date".
And then a LABEL, we'll also have a "for" attribute. So let's copy and change "post_count" to "include_date". And
inside the LABEL
we will have to output some escaped and translated string, right? So let's type "Include Date?"
and text domain.
So this should be LABEL.
I think that's it for the LABEL. Let's take a look.
And we have it
here. Finally we'll all have our dropdown. So let's add a new P tag. And we'll need to add a LABEL.
Let's copy one of these.
I just don't want to waste your time,
you know, typing all of that. Let's just modify this to "sort_by".
And here "sort_by".
And then let's create a dropdown. So SELECT tag, let's give it a class
also "widefat". And it will need an ID and a name, ok?
So let's copy one of these
and change the name of the field to "sort_by".
Sorry let's close
the SELECT tag. And let's add some options.
So this one will be.
So let's first take a look at the WP_Query class.
Remember we took a look at this in one of the early lectures. So this will allow us to retrieve some
posts from WordPress, right?
So let's go to the sorting.
Let's do a Ctrl+F and "sort_by". So you can sort by these things: "date", "type", "name". So let's choose some of these
and put them in the options.
So let's do the "date" and maybe "rand" and "comment_count", right?
So the value for this one will be "date".
And here we'll have to output an escaped and translated string. So let's say "Most Recent". And let's create
two more.
So this will be "rand" and here it'll be "Random".
And "comment_count".
And let's type here "Number Of Comments".
So let's take a look.
And now we have a dropdown with our options.
All right.
So now we have a list of fields.
Let's them write to save and sanitize in the update() function.
But before that I just want to point out something is actually a mistake I did. Remember in the update() function
we use the is_set() here to make sure we have the title in the $new_instance before sanitizing.
Right?
But that's actually unnecessary because the update() function will always run to the form() function.
So the form() function will run and rendered fields and then when you click Save the update() function
will run. And when the update() function runs the $new_instance will have all the fields here.
So in this $new_instance we are sure that we have the "title" inside of it. So we can remove this. And just
sanitize the value that we typed.
Right?
In the form() function we still should check for is_set().
Why?
Let's go back now to the admin.
We are still var_dumping the $instance. And let's try and add our widget again from here to the sidebar. And as
you can see at the very beginning the $instance array will be empty. The first time you drag it from here to
here.
It will be empty.
So that's why you have to check first if is_set() "title" of instance to make sure that we have this variable
before actually using it.
And if you don't have this value we will display the default value that we want this field to have. So let's
say
it's not an empty string, let's say some other string.
And let's try. Let's remove this and let's try to add another one.
So now it says default but now let's refresh.
And as you can see it's saved. And also some of you thought it would be an empty string because you haven't saved
anything you just dragged it.
But actually when you drag a widget from here to here, it will be saved automatically for the first time.
So what happens is, we dragged our Recent Post widget, the form() function ran to display the form. We
checked if we have the "title" field. And in our case it was at first time we drag it so we didn't have it.
So the $title" was set to "default" and we use the "title" here in the value for the input.
And after this WordPress will automatically save your widget when you drag it for the first time.
So this function will run and the $new_instance will contain the "title" and the "title" will be the value
in this field which is the default title that we added, right?
So I just wanted you to know this because when we sanitize the rest of our fields that's what we will
do.
Here we will just sanitize.
And here we will check that the key exists and if not we will add a default value,
right?
So let's in the next lecture
sanitize and display the rest of our fields.
See you in the next lecture.